life hello everyone my name is J I'm one
of the teachers at e2 language comm if
you need some help the IELTS do check
out that website in this live class
we're going to look at IELTS general
writing task 1 specifically we're going
to be looking at the semi-formal letter
okay it's a little bit different to the
formal or the personal or informal this
one's semi-formal right so on test day
this is what you're going to see I
should just say hmmm if you want to
prepare well you need to sort of
understand what you will see on test day
you don't want any surprises so when you
are sitting there next to the other 30
people in the room you're gonna look
down at the test paper and see this now
you've only got 60 minutes to complete
both task one and task two so you don't
want to waste any time trying to
comprehend what you're looking at enough
words you knew immediately when you look
at this what's important is that central
part okay what you're going to do is
write a letter fine we know that this
says this particular letter says you are
applying for a job and you need a letter
of reference write a letter to a former
boss be interesting so this thing tells
us that we're going to write a
semi-formal letter why because it's a
former boss it's still a person of
authority but it's not we're not writing
to apply for a job where we don't know
the person in other words we know this
person they're a person of authority so
they're not a friend so it's in between
the formal and the informal that's fine
there's really not much difference
between formalities in English we don't
I know in some languages like Korean for
example you change your verb tenses for
the person you're talking to in terms of
hierarchy but not really in English I'll
show you how it's done but there's this
very little change cause we're writing a
semi-formal letter to a former boss why
because we need a letter of
referent I now we need to do three
things in your letter describe the job
you are applying for
say what you want included in the
reference letter and request that your
former boss send you the letter by the
end of the week yeah this is going to be
quite interesting because we've got to
negotiate being polite with getting what
we want
I'm going to show you how to do that as
well because there are certain ways to
be polite in English and yet still ask
for something explicitly I'm going to
show you that in this letter right cool
what we ultimately want to do is write
an IELTS 9 letter this deserves an IELTS
9 this letter is well it's perfect it's
perfect in every way there are 4 ways
there are 4 things that the examiners
look for in your letter four things that
you write on topic that you use precise
vocabulary that you use accurate grammar
and that you use a good structure this
letter has them all I'm going to show
you how to do all of those actually
let up from 65 words because you need to
write over 150 words make sure you do
write more than 150 words because you
will be penalized and your score could
drop quite remarkably if you don't get
to the word count so I'm gonna again
show you how to do that in this lesson
as well cool all right there's a six six
step method we want to follow a six step
method here are the steps let's just
have a look we're going to look at how
to write the greeting that's dead simple
we're going to look at how to write the
reason for writing that's pretty easy
then we're going to have a look at the
the description here then we get into
the sorry the background then we get
into details then we get into the
request or the suggestion and then we
look at this part here so we're going to
step through these one by one I'm going
to do this one then this one then this
one and you're going to write sentences
as we go so please get out a pen and a
piece of paper because the best way to
learn how to write these letters and how
to put this structure into your mind is
by doing it there's really no other way
you can't just sit there of what
- youtuber ah now I know how to write
this letter no when you put pen to paper
and you start to realize well that's
more difficult than I thought
cool write this letter that I just
showed you actually has quite a few
phrases or parts that you can memorize
you can't memorize the whole lot you do
need to be flexible because every letter
will be different and the examiners know
if you've memorized the whole thing
because there's no way to memorize the
whole thing because you don't know what
prompt you will get on test day however
there are parts that you can memorize
for example you can memorize the
greeting okay you can memorize this part
whoopsy whatever done memorize this part
here I look forward to hearing from you
you can memorize that phrase yours
sincerely and of course you can memorize
your name so there's four parts that you
can memorize cool so in fact if we look
at our letter these parts have been
memorized right at the beginning and the
end
but actually more that you can memorize
because you can memorize the beginning
phrases of each paragraph the reason for
writing for example I am writing to verb
I'm writing to invite you to my party
I'm writing to complain about your
stench I'm writing to request that you
give me $100 this is a phrase that you
can also memorize in the second
paragraph you explain in detail let me
explain in more detail you can memorize
this whole sentence and the third
paragraph that we're going to write
you're either going to request or
suggest in which case you can use you or
could you verb object or can I suggest
or might I suggest subject verb object
so in fact what we can memorize if this
letter is quite a bit dear Michael I'm
writing to let me explain in more detail
would you be able to I look forward to
hearing from you you're sincerely Jay so
what we have to write based on the
prompt is this this much it's still
quite a bit it's still quite a bit and
you still need to have the fundamental
skills of vocabulary and grammar
sentence structure that sort of thing if
you need any help by the way please go
to e to language comm we have heaps of
stuff for you that can help you with
your grammar and vocabulary and whatnot
cool so really your job is to do three
things on test day with this letter
first you need to give a reason for
writing and provide some background
information give a reason why you're
writing and what's the background
information then you explain in more
detail then you're going to request or
suggest it's always the same no matter
what question prompt you get it's going
to follow this structure whether it's
informal semi formal formal doesn't
matter the prompt it always is like this
background information more details and
then your request or suggests okay so we
can follow a
structure here which is good right now
it's almost time for you to start
writing we'll start with a dead simple
part which is the greeting so dear
Michael
now it's semi-formal it's semi-formal so
I haven't said hi Michael I've said dear
semi-formal but I've used you know when
I started writing this I wrote dear Mike
but I realized Mike was short for
Michael Mike would be fine if it's your
friend that this is semi-formal so full
the first name is fine you could also
write dear mr. Smith that the first name
is fine it's an ex boss so that's cool
now it actually tells you on test day
how to begin your letter it says begin
your letter as follows dear blah
so you could say dear Michael dear mr.
Smith whatever you make it up so begin
your letter as follows dear blah blah
please write this greeting you have 20
seconds let me check that this is all
working good dear Laura good don't
forget that comma we want a capital
letter for the name good good good dear
Sam dear Tom well done Julia oh ma kudos
Smitha Prasanna good nice dear Kurt
excellent done let's move on we've
written this now we need to give the
reason for writing because you you can't
okay you're writing a letter you have to
say immediately why you're writing
because the reader gets your letter and
you can't talk about background
information and make the request why are
you writing to me why are you writing to
me so we can use a phrase we can steal a
phrase and we can memorise this I am
writing to verb well what I wrote was
I'm writing to ask you I sorry I asked
if you would kindly write me a reference
letter so why did I write that because
it says in the instructions on the
letter you are applying for a job and
you need a letter of
reference write a letter to a former
boss so we're requesting something were
asking for something so I said I'm
writing to ask whether you would kindly
write me a reference letter okay cool
fine I wanted to do the same why are you
writing you have one minute to finish
this sentence trying is West's and
writing to request
okay let me check some of these answers
for these lovely lovely paid members who
are in this webinar oh ma I'm writing to
ask you to do me a favor and write a
reference letter for a job okay
close I'm writing to ask you to do me a
favor
full stop start a new sentence please
can you write me a reference letter for
a job excellent good chisti I'm writing
to request a reference letter for my
previous jobs no for a job I am applying
for or will apply for in the future
I'm right twist illiterate runs from you
good nice clear and simple that is fine
rookie I'm writing to request a favor
not for a favor I writing to request a
favor it would be great if you could
write a reference letter for me
excellent good good good Val Bob I'm
writing to request if you can provide me
with a reference letter of my last
employment with you good that's fine
Viktor I'm writing to request a letter
of reference from you that's fine Julia
I'm writing to request if you could
write a reference letter for me because
I am applying for a job beautiful keep
it simple make sure you grammar straight
that's pretty good well done cool
now we need to give background
information but given the reason for
writing now we need to give some
background information so what did I
wrote right I said the job I'm applying
for is in the tourism industry more
specifically I hope to give surfing
lessons to tourists in Bali of course
this is completely fictitious I made
this up I used my imagination am I
really do I really want to become a
surfing instructor in Bali not really I
just thought it would be interesting
language and it came to my mind and I
thought yeah I can write that that's no
problem so you have to be creative so
this part comes from the first dot point
in your letter describe the job you are
applying for so really what you're doing
is giving this is the general rule all
of your letters you give background
information this one more specifically
says describe the job you're applying
for so I just said the job I am applying
for is in the tourism industry broadly
more specifically I hope to give surfing
lessons to tourists in Bali you may want
to use these two sentences like this
structure if you like but please
describe the job you are applying for in
two sentences I'll give you two minutes
all right let me check some of these
sentences Smitha dear Miss Rita Ramos
I'm writing to request if you could
write me a reference letter for my
further studies now for the you're
applying for a job
don't go off-topic I'm writing to ask if
oh ma I'm planning to apply for a new
position as a supervisor engineer more
specifically more specifically
subject-verb-object
more specifically the job is in a
laboratory department the job easy and
we need that verb in that more
specifically subject-verb-object good
kudos I am playing for a job in a
university where i will be teaching
human resources to the students plural
not just one student students good and
human resources or human resource
management good well done that's fine
Julia I have been working for your
Center for one year and have been
enjoying the experience remember this is
a former boss a former boss so read that
cue card carefully so this is no longer
your boss it's not your current boss
it's a former pre boss so I enjoyed past
tense working for you that's fine you
can start like that
Prasanna I'm applying for a job in
Victoria University in the IT field in
more detail I'm looking for a job as an
IT tutor for postgraduate students good
Chandra I'm applying for a supervisor
role in an earth and earth and earth at
earth an earth get those articles right
an earth moving company this is in
particular to all there's problems with
this specificity there's problems with
getting particular here ok let's let's
look at mine I want to show you how I
did mine let's go back ok ok ok I need
to show you how to do this so here I've
just said broadly the job I'm applying
for is in the tourism industry okay
that's quite broad and
I said more specifically or in
particular or or
specifically would be fine then
subject-verb-object subject-verb and
then the rest of the sentence you can't
say more specifically give surfing
lessons no no no no no no no you need
more specifically I hope to give surfing
lessons or more specifically the job
will be giving surfing lessons or more
specifically I will be teaching tourists
how to surf okay ah cool
let's see Victor I'm applying for a
position of bar manager in the Hilton
based in Sydney most importantly they
are requesting people with my skills
good that's fine that's good so we had a
broad sentence and then we went to a
specific sentence I'm going to be
working in earth-moving to be more
specific I want to drive the machinery
whatever it is cool cool cool cool good
that's fine so we describe the job in
two sentences now we need to go into
detail now we no need to go into detail
whoa here's my paragraph that's okay
what did I do
well it says say what you want included
in the reference letter say what you
want included in the reference letter
this is where it starts to get tricky
okay so we know this person this former
boss it's not our current boss our
former boss and we have some sort of
relationship with him or her from the
past and I dare say it's probably
friendly because we're requesting
something now we get into the world of
English language where we have to be
polite yet forceful because we want this
person to do something for us
but we don't want to be offensive we
want to request or suggest in such a way
that it comes across as being respectful
this is kind of tricky
I'm going to show you the sort of
language that I've used here so I want
to I'm gonna say what I want included in
this reference letter
so I'm going to start by just with this
memorized sentence let me explain in
more detail so you can all use that
that's fine I know that we work together
as teachers but I would appreciate if
you could include information about my
character you could describe my
hard-working and amicable personality
for example in addition you could
possibly mention my ability with foreign
languages that would be excellent if you
remember I speak Russian Portuguese and
Italian so what you'll notice here is
I've used these modal verbs you I would
appreciate it you could include you
could describe you could possibly
mention that would be fantastic these
sorts of words are really important if
we want to ask for something in English
and yet remain respectful so I want you
to write this one say what you want
included in the reference letter for
example you want your former Buster to
write about how intelligent you are with
computers or how good you are with
people or what a great cook you are so
it would be good if you could mention
how great I am at cooking it would be
much appreciated wanted to use those
modal verbs could would words like that
so start with start with this sentence
here let me explain in more detail and
then I want you to write four or five
sentences using modal verbs please I'm
going to give you four minutes
if you're on YouTube and you're enjoying
this please click like you can see 23
likes I'd like to see a lot more
so you've got a couple of minutes left
let me check the chat here whoops women
oohing okay whoops I did make a mistake
Angelo
thanks for seeing that okay
Ruchi the job I'm applying for is in the
telecom industry more specifically I
hope I will be able to work on certain
technical tools of my interest good
Maria I'm interested in a new quality
engineering role this position will
focus merely on quality management
system specifically to do more internal
audits and in-house training for other
engineers that's fine you're using all
of your background knowledge I can see
you're familiar with that vocabulary so
that's that's good that's fine Julia let
me describe the content of the letter in
more detail correct
great well done Julia that's an
excellent excellent first sentence let
me explain the content of the reference
letter in more detail beautiful
beautiful could I suggest that you
mention how dedicated I am as a worker
also it would be fantastic if you
explain my punctuality approachability
and well-formed capacity to work on the
tape yes I love a good sentence
or a good paragraph that is brilliant
well done Angelo let me explain in more
detail I would be grateful if you could
kindly if you could kindly include in
the reference letter my relevant
experience with open-pit gold mines
it's working in open-pit goldmines weber
let me explain in more detail we have
worked together and you know how I have
accomplished my responsibilities
accomplish your responsibilities without
fail I would like to mention I would
like you to mention about my core
competency and about my character guru
kudos sorry you've just disappeared off
the chat there kudos let me explain in
more detail full stop new sentence I
would appreciate if you could mention
how good I was with students and staff
members in terms of behavior also please
elaborate on elaborate on my teaching
techniques good well done bit of
spelling stuff there Ruchi let me
explain in more detail as we have worked
together as colleagues comma I would
request you to including Frenette
information about my roles and
responsibilities you could describe my
never giving up attitude and as well as
personality good describe my never
giving up attitude my my my
what would you say that never giving up
attitude my resilience my resilience
might be a better way to say that chisti
let me explain in more detail where did
you go I I also could do programming no
no you're requesting what's to go in
that letter you could write about me
like this that's what you're doing here
not talking about you Prasanna let me
explain in more detail I would
appreciate it if you could write a few
words that will reinstate not reinstate
I would appreciate it if you could write
a few words that would describe describe
how reliable I am and hardworking as an
employee if you would be able to attest
to that I am if you'll be able to test
that I am competent in teaching students
that would be great okay it's hard using
these modal verbs they're really really
tricky these are looking good though
these are looking really good well done
well done well done
cool good if you haven't finished that
that's fine you can come back to that if
you're on YouTube you can press pause so
now we're up to the
final paragraph paragraph what the hell
is a paragraph paragraph where you will
do one of two things you will either
request or suggest now this one actually
says here
where that your former boss send you the
letter by the end of the week ah again
we're we're saying we're in a bit of I'm
sorry but can I ask you to do this
quickly we're going to have to use again
modal verbs to express politeness to be
still be forceful and say I need you to
do this but do it in such a way that
it's respectful because it's a form of
bus so fine your paragraph is going to
look like this and it's probably going
to start with well let's look at mine
again sorry let's look at mine a good
way to start a request is would you or
could you or are you able to would you
so we're going to do a request fine oh I
knew that was going to die my apologies
here we go so request that your former
boss send you the letter by the end of
the week okay I'll give you a couple of
minutes who can do this politely okay
and let me read your mind let me read
your mind let me read you my mind says
would you be able to deliver me this
letter by the end of the week I have a
job application as the job begins in
less than two weeks it would mean a lot
to me if you could write this letter as
soon as you possibly can
again again again would here I've just
said I have a tight deadline for the job
application bla bla bla bla it would
mean a lot to me if you could write this
letter as soon as you possibly can call
so I've filled it with modal verbs I've
also given some extra information so
call your turn you have two minutes
right let me check some of these
comments in here hmm what have you guys
written kudos please ask me that
question at the end okay Ritchie could I
ask if it would be possible
beautiful request well done could I ask
if it would be possible that's its so
could would possible this is such a
polite way of doing it you're you're
you're expressing how much you need this
could I ask if it would be possible it's
good well done Ritchie could I ask if it
would be possible for you to send me
this letter by the end of the week you
can't just say send me the left by the
end of the week former boss I'm gonna
come around and get you know you need to
lace it with modal verbs well done could
I ask if it would be possible for you to
send me this letter by the end of the
week
go ahead Victor should you agree that I
have the characteristics that I
mentioned before
good you agree not agree it should you
agree that I have the characteristics
that I mentioned before comma would you
be able to send not send send me the
letter before next Wednesday they are
requiring this document as soon as
possible maybe extend that out is not
ASAP but as soon as possible
in order to finish my application and
prepare an offer excellent Victor well
done
Vaibhav I would request if you'll be
able to deliver this letter in a week it
will help me a lot oops I've lost your
chat there it would help me a lot
because I have to submit the letter
before Thursday next week do it fine
Prasanna could you be kind enough to
send us letter by Saturday the 29th go
ahead we need a few more sentences on
there Julia could it be possible for you
would it be possible for you would
probably to be the better more precise
modal verb why for some reason with the
word possible could it be possible would
it be possible I think would is just a
little bit more frequently used there in
that
phrase so would it be possible when did
yours go would it be possible for you to
finalize the reference letter by the end
of the week question mark that's a
question I would appreciate that very
much
good Oh No would you kindly send the
reference letter before the end of the
week as it is required urgently
beautiful and maybe another sentence
saying unfortunately the deadline is
very tight and they've set that and I
would I really want to get this letter
in on time kudos could you kindly send
me the letter by next week
question mark it's a question if you
start the sentence with a modal verb
could would should can might may etc
that means it's a question that means
you've got you have to put a question
mark at the end could you question would
you question can you question my two
question good cha missing your name now
I humbly request you to send this letter
in our company letterhead beautiful well
done before the end of next week as I am
committed to deliver this along with my
personal proofs comma it would be really
helpful if I get this in on time get
this in on time too prepositions in on
in on time in on time beautiful
Smitha the deadline for the job
application is the end of this week
would it be possible for you to deliver
this letter within this week question
mark good I would be so grateful if you
could do me this favor
terrific well done we're nearly finished
we're nearly finished now we just need
to end sign-off and put your name so
this is just something that you can
memorize because we're doing semi formal
this is a good way to finish I knopf you
can use this for you can actually use it
for informal you can use it for semi
formal you could potentially even use
this for formal so if you do just want
to memorize one type of sign-off this
might be a really good one
I look forward to hearing from you this
this actually can be used mmm
maybe not for informal it's okay for
informal maybe a better one for informal
would be something like I hope to hear
from you alright
yeah no it's fine it's fine it's fine
but this is this is definitely a
semi-formal you're sincerely why because
you know Michael you know
this person so it's naturally it's
sincerely because you've met this person
before fine and put both your first name
and your family name why because if it's
informal you'll just put your first name
so you can put both your names there
cool so let's quickly copy this one and
you you have one minute
how's it going did it to do whoopty I
look forward to hearing from you at your
earliest convenience that's better than
mine well done very good at your
earliest that's let me just write that
one down because I'm gonna remember
though that's a really nice way to say
that especially because we're putting
pressure on this person I look forward
to hearing from you at your earliest
earliest sorry my handwriting is
terrible Khan
vini
there no . here forget this for start no
comma i can't delete that there's
nothing there i look forward to hearing
from you at your earliest convenience
this is an even better phrase well done
ritchie that's a good one all right what
else we go i look forward to i look
forward to your response good i'm
looking forward to hearing from you sis
Julia you're sincerely good I look
forward to hearing from you I look
forward to receiving your response soon
good oh ma that's great
hoping to hear from you so soon
sincerely prasada
good and Angelo I'm looking forward to
hearing from you very soon and thank you
very much for your help
they're all fine good yeah good so
there's a bit of flexibility available
in all of this sort of stuff that I'm
teaching it's a good structure it really
works but yeah sure if you want to add a
little phrase to whatever I have here
that's that's fine cool that my friends
is it and your letter should look like
this on test day it should be written
like this with these separations between
your paragraphs the greeting we have the
reason for writing the background
information the the more details the
requests or the suggestion and then we
have the the final part they're cool and
we and we learned that well we can
memorize this I'm right into verb we can
memorize this first sentence here we
memorize the requests we memorize all of
this so that's good
so in fact well we still have to be use
our language skills but nevertheless why
would why would my letter get an IELTS
nein
why does it deserve to get a Nile
tonight I actually don't know if I'll
ever give a 9 they seem to be very very
strict with writing but anyway let me
justify why this should get an IELTS 9
there are four
things that the examiners look for when
they look at your letter okay four
things first did you write on topic -
did you use precise vocabulary three did
you use accurate grammar four did you
use a logical structure now what I've
just shown you helps you to do this and
this vocab and grammar is a different
story and I'll get to that in a second
I'll get to that in a second but this
thing that I've just showed you really
does cover one and four what does it
mean to write on topic well we
definitely separated all of our
paragraphs out and we did this in the
first first of all we we wrote the
reason for writing you need a letter of
reference then we wrote a paragraph on
describing the job we're applying for
then we wrote a second paragraph then we
wrote a third paragraph so tick tick
tick good we've definitely written on
topic one of the big problems that
people one of the errors that people
make is they mix their paragraphs
together you have to be very careful to
keep your paragraphs separate what do I
mean by that so a lot of people for
example they'll say this one says
describe the job you're applying for
this one says say what you want included
in the reference letter
some people might mix and start to ask
for what they want in the reference
letter in the first paragraph or they
might start to talk about the job
they're applying for in the second
paragraph or the request might go into
the second one or vice versa and we you
don't want that you want to keep your
paragraphs absolutely separates and just
be very before you start to write your
paragraph just stop and think for a few
seconds and think okay I'm in
it's a parable about this and weave it
very separate from my next paragraph
IELTS examiner's like separate
paragraphs when you haven't mixed the
that the question prompt in with into
the different paragraphs cool so in ours
we gave the reason for writing and we
gave the background information fine
then we explained in detail then we
requested something we requested
something there's the three or four
things that we do fine use precise
vocabulary well if we look carefully
vocabulary is more than single words
tourism industry Morse
specifically in more detail but I would
appreciate it if you could hard-working
amicable
in addition tight deadlines would mean a
lot to me if as soon as you possibly can
so what have I got here well I've got a
mixture of single words like amicable
and hardworking this is nice vocabulary
but really what's better than using
fancy single words is using phrases word
combinations things like you know this
is a nice little combination a tight
deadline examiner's are looking for
these collocations these word
combinations phrases like but I would
appreciate it if you could I would
appreciate it if you could verb and
start to memorize some of these phrases
as soon as you possibly can as a nice
phrase what about grammar what have I
done well have a look at my verbs here
nothing too fancy I've got present
continuous I've got a modal verb here
would write another present continuous
am applying present simple present
simple present simple present simple
past we worked together as teachers in
the past modal verb here modal verb here
could describe could mention would be
lots of modal verbs present simple
present simple modal verb present simple
present simple modal verb modal verb and
here we've got a verb phrase with the
preposition so my verbs you know there's
actually no present perfect in here but
the there's lots of modal verbs so
that's a good thing what you need to do
with verbs is think about what you're
trying to say what are you trying to say
don't go into the exam thinking I'm
going to use present perfect present
perfect continuous and past perfect it's
not about that it's about conveying a
clear message it's about
using the right verb to say what you
want to say to communicate what you want
to communicate
if you want to check out verb tenses if
you're confused type into the YouTube
chat e to course skills I'll put it into
the description below we've got some
great verb videos that explain this sort
of stuff okay so verbs are really
important because they're in every
sentence so you need to get them right
what about articles and nouns well if
you're from India a lot of Indians have
trouble with this a lot of Asian people
from Asia who speak lots of different
languages there's no articles in your
language so aa letter the job so we go
from nonspecific to specific the tourism
industry what else have we got here
anymore our tight deadline the week the
end of the week the job application the
job so make sure you get your articles
right they're important ah and that and
make sure you get your plural nouns
right so surfing lessons not not
tourists tourists plural more than one
more than one languages plural more than
one this is such a critical such a
common error such a common error if an
IELTS examiner's sees that you have
written a singular noun when it should
be a plural noun when you should have an
S on the end that's something that's
it's funny these singular and plural
nouns because it's something that you've
learned very early on when you start to
learn English but it's something that
you constantly need to consider when
you're writing and when you're speaking
is it one tourist or is it more than one
tourists so one student are you going to
teach a student or students you really
need to consider singular and plural
nouns that's probably the biggest thing
the other thing is capital letters for
names of places for country are sorry
for languages countries peoples names
etc so that's important adverbs and
adjectives so kindly space
typically possibly possibly sincerely
these are nice adverbs a reference
letter surfing lessons tourism industry
hard-working amicable foreign excellent
tight less to able so I've also got some
interesting adjectives here describing
words so that's cool
prepositions these are real trick this
is fine I'm writing to ask hope to give
these are these are fine
lessons to tourists in Bali in a place
in a place in more detail is just a
phrase we have to memorize in as
teachers about my character for example
in addition with languages my ability
with languages to deliver end of the
week deadline for application as the job
begins in less than two weeks I look
forward to hearing from you
prepositions are probably the hardest
little bits to get right but again if
you want to push up towards that IELTS
nine eight seven point five you really
need to get the prepositions right look
are they critical well
verb tenses are probably more important
but prepositions just make it perfect
they're the things that you get right to
make your letter stand out from
everybody else's they're hard how do you
learn them well pay attention when
you're reading pay attention to those
tiny little words there's prepositions
there's also other ways but maybe I'll
get to that in a second
fine the other thing you want to do this
is the last thing that we're looking at
by the way simple sentences and complex
sentences so you want to have a range of
short simple sentences these are the
black ones the job I'm applying for is
in the tourism industry good more
specifically I hope to give surfing
lessons to tourists in Bali so just the
single verb there I hope to give yes
fine one verb
but then we have complex sentences here
and these are where we have two or three
verbs I know that we worked together as
teachers then we have a joiner but I
would appreciate if you could include
information about my character this
sentence is complex why because it has
four verbs not one for I mean a complex
sentence can also just have two verbs
that's fine and what we've done is we've
joined these sentence parts to make one
big long complex sentence by using that
joiner but or that or as or as or or
even if you can use these joiners to
create complex sentences cool
last one use a logical structure well
this structure that I taught you that
has the six steps the greeting the
reason for writing the background
information the the details the request
and then the last bit this is the sort
of structure that you want that's the
logical structure that you should follow
in order to get an IELTS knife now just
before you click the head by the way if
you're on YouTube click like if you
enjoyed this video feel free to
subscribe and also leave a comment
I appreciate reading nice comments it
helps me to keep my motivation as a as a
YouTube teacher by the way so get
feedback of course this doesn't apply to
everyone who's in the paid webinar right
now but for those of you on YouTube if
you really do want to succeed there are
two ways that you can
do this one-on-one tutorials are written
for feedback it all comes down to this
because the question is how do you know
if you're doing something wrong how do
you know what you're doing wrong
it requires somebody like me to look at
your writing and say ah you need to work
on prepositions you need to work on
building complex sentences you need to
get your articles straight for example
or I can look at the logic of your
letter for example so one of the things
we do at e to language comm WWE -
language comm is we offer preparation
courses for IELTS that include tutorials
and include written feedback so do check
that out that my friends is the end of
that I will now be answering questions
for my lovely people in the webinar
chisti can we start like greetings dear
sir Nora it tells you it tells you let
me go back it tells you right at the
start of the letter how to start your
letter let me show you this again so you
don't want to create this it's not about
creating this it says so when you first
look at that thing it says begin your
letter
as follow its year or dear sir/madam it
will tell you exactly how to start so
please don't reinvent this don't come up
with your own greeting or something like
that just read that carefully okay
Victor can you explain an IELTS 7.5 in
writing not off the top of my head there
are what's called the public band
descriptors what this means in English
is they have IELTS have a way of grading
you they look at those four criteria so
did you write on topic your grammar your
vocabulary and your logic and they give
you an individual score on each of those
and each of those has a category with a
description of an IELTS nine does this
an iOS 9 is basically perfect an IELTS
8.5 my have a few little errors they go
into detail um you can google IELTS
writing band descriptors and you can
look for yourself but it's probably
better if you just it's it's complicated
linguistic stuff to be honest Victor
it's complicated cool thanks Julia
appreciate it
kudos I have two questions one if the
question asks you to introduce yourself
then house what should we write okay if
it just says introduce yourself that
would be the first task okay the first
task that you have to do remember there
are three first one might say introduce
yourself to the arena let's so obviously
you do not know this person
so probably formal letter maybe
semi-formal probably know it'll be
formal so you're gonna say hello dr.
Smith I would like to introduce myself
full-stop my name is Jay Merlot and I am
one of the teachers at e2 language comm
. i have been teaching at e2 language
for the last one and a half years before
that
I was teaching at a Victoria University
in Melbourne blah blah blah blah I would
like to introduce myself
. then start to talk about yourself to
memorize that phrase kudos question 2 as
the question is divided into 3 parts 1 2
can we write about part 3 and then - no
keep it in the same structure don't mix
up the structure Prasanna J can I write
please let me acquaint you to my
circumstances for formal and semi-formal
no no it's a little bit odd language
let me explain my situation in more
detail that's a better way to do it
Maria hi J what is the most convenient
way to count the words right
holy moly right good question
ok you have to do a little bit of
mathematics actually let's just do it
now let's go back and count how many
sentences I've written ok let's look at
this let's let's look let's sort this
out right now so here we have two
sentences right here we have 1 2 3 4 up
5 so it where it's 7 where 7 1 2 3 so
we're at 10 10 sentences so so here this
part here I've written 10 sentences in
total okay this one I had - this one I
had what was it I can't remember
4 4 I think anyway
but answers 10 sentences that plural
however some of my sentences are very
long and complex so you might want to
aim if you're going to write short
simple sentences you should probably
write about 15 sentences another way to
do it is this let me explain this way
this is probably better if you're going
to practice at home this is what you do
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 good that's going to be easy
to multiply so I've got 20 and then you
count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
let's uh let's see how accurate this is
actually so that's that's 200 words in
fact it's 165 so it gives you a very
rough a very rough calculation to be
honest it's a hundred and fifty words
you probably have time to count every
single word if you follow this structure
you will have time so just count every
word make sure you're above 150 yes yes
yes yes yes cool other questions
mmm Prasanna Cambridge books will have
sampled band score answers okay that's
that's a good way to do that I might do
a video on what it all means in IELTS
nine versus eight point five versus
seven point five or whatever vikrum
vikrum JIT are there any topics is there
any topic wise vocabulary which can be
used in achieve higher balance okay
vocabulary to get a higher band score
well first of all yes you should be
using to get a higher man score less
common more articulate more precise
vocabulary but it has to be accurate you
can't just pull words out do you think
oh that's a fancy word let me use that
one because an examiner will see a word
that's wrong even if it's a big fancy
word and go yuck bad you're much better
off if your vocabulary is limited you're
much better off to choose words that you
know that a simple rather than words
that you don't know that a too complex
and imprecise okay so choose words use
words that you know are right use words
that you know are right you can start to
build your vocabulary and include words
that you've newly learned but again only
if you know they're there they're
precise but again as I said vocabulary
is not about two single words it's about
multiple words it's about word
combinations of two or three or phrases
that as soon as you possibly can these
sorts of phrases are what the IELTS
examiner's like why because their native
lack their natural they sound authentic
they're good cool
Angela could you please explain in more
detail why you have used but in your
letter the word but convey contrast and
I didn't see this contrast in your
sentence oh okay good I get it yeah yeah
yeah good question good question a good
question here we go so but why did I use
this okay because I'm I'm I'm writing
for to get a to get a reference letter
and I say I know that we work together
as teachers here I'm writing to get a
reference letter to give surfing lessons
in Bali
I know witches but I would appreciate it
if you could include information about
my character so there's a bit of a
contrast going on there between my
former profession which was a teacher
and the job that I'm applying for which
is to teach surfing so I said I
understand that we used to work as
teachers but it would be good if you
could just talk about my character not
my teaching skills because that won't
apply I hope that makes sense good
question oh well hold on that's crazy
sorry for that cool I think that's it
good I'm gonna go home and eat some
dinner I hope you do the same
good luck keep writing keep practicing
get feedback get feedback that's the
critical thing here and I will see you
guys on Wednesday for the writing task
too by the way
yes they'll see you one and stay cool
how do I turn this thing off bye
you